echo hello

echo "hello"
    Note: The output is the same as before. The quotation marks are optional in this case, but they tell the shell to group a series of characters together. This can be useful if you need to pass a string that contains certain characters that might be otherwise misinterpreted by the command.

expr 32 - 8
    Note: The expr command requires that all terms and operators in an expression are separated by spaces. For example: expr 32 - 8, and not expr 32-8. performs integer mathematical calculations only, so you cannot use the decimal point or expect a fractional result

clear 
    Note: All previous commands and output will be cleared.


apt 

sudo apt install suricata
    Note: The apt install and apt remove commands must be prefixed with the sudo command as elevated privileges are required to install and uninstall software in Linux.
    The Suricata application can take a few minutes to install.

    When you install an application with APT, the output displays details of all the software to be installed. This may include additional applications that depend on the new software. These additional applications are called the dependencies of the software to be installed.

sudo apt remove suricata

Suricata, a network analysis tool used for intrusion detection
tcpdump application. This is a command-line tool that can be used to capture network traffic in a Linux Bash shell

sudo apt install tcpdump

apt list --installed
    list all installed apps


Directories  
       
    pwd - prints current working directory 
    ls - prints names of files and directories in current working directory  
    cd - navigates between directories

Display contents of files 

    cat - displays content of files
    head - only displays first 10 lines of file
        (head -n 5 updates.txt)
    tail - shows last 10 lines of file
    less - returns content of file one page at a time

    Space bar: Move forward one page
    Down arrow: Move forward one line
    Up arrow: Move back one line
    b: Move back one page
    q: Quit and return to the previous terminal window

man hier - learn more about FHS (Filesystem Hierarchy Standard)
whoami - returns username of current user

Finding what you need 

    grep - searches specified file and returns all lines containing specified string
        (grep contents bash_commands.txt)

        uses backslashes to escape chars 
            "testing test" tester
            grep "\"testing test\"" bash_commands.txt

    | - piping; sends standard output of command as standard input to another command

    combine grep, pipe, and ls to search multiple files 
        (ls /home/analyst/reports | grep users)
            will return all files and directories that contain "users" in their file name (does not search files)

    find - searches for directories or files that meet specified criteria 

        eg: 
            - contain string in name    
            - file size 
            - last modified time

        options: 
            -name and -iname 
                searches files and dirs for keyword , -name is case sensitive 

                find /home/analyst/projects -name "*log*"
                    Note: An asterisk (*) is used as a wildcard to represent zero or more unknown characters.
            
            -mtime 
                finds based on modification time

                (find /home/analyst/projects -mtime -3)
                    shows all files and dirs modified within the last 3 days

                    can change + or - 
                        + is more than 3 days 
                        - less than 3 days
                
                -mmin = can be used for minutes instead of days

Create and modify files and directories

    mkdir - creates a new directory 
    rmdir - removes or deletes a directory 
    touch - creates a new file
    rm - removes or deletes a file 
    mv - move file/dir to new location
        can also be used to rename files 
            (mv permissions.txt perm.txt)
    cp - copy file/dir to new location

    nano - to open editor
        will also create a file if specified file does not exist
        Ctrl + O = Save
        Ctrl + X = Exit

> and >> - can be used to redirect standard output 
        > overwrites existing file 
        >> adds to end of file

File permissions and ownership 
    ls -l = displays permissions to files and directories
    ls -a = displays hidden files 
    ls -la = displays permssions to files and dirs including hidden files 

Change permissions 
    drwxrwxrwx = given to 3 types of owners user(u), group(g), other(o)
   1. d = directory, - = regular file
   2. r = read
      w = write 
      x = execute
     (- = if user lacks permissions)

    chmod
    + (Add)
    - (Remove)
    = (Assign)

    chmod u+rwx,g+rwx,o+rwx login.txt (Add all permissions to file login.txt)
    chmod g+w,o-r login.txt (Add permission to write for group, Removes read permission of others)
    chmod u=r,g=r,o=r login.txt (sets or assigns permissions exactly as specified, 
                                 this command would make user, group, and other only have read permissions)

WHEN THERE ARE PERMISSON CHANGES TO MORE THAN ONE OWNER TYPE,COMMAS ARE NEEDED TO SEPARATE CHANGES FOR EACH. YOU SHOULD NOT ADD SPACES AFTER THOSE COMMAS.
      

Add and delete users 
    sudo - grants temporary super user permissions (super user do. Users must give access in config file to use sudo, file is called "sudoers file")

    useradd - adds user to system can only be done by root or sudo user 
             (sudo useradd user2)

        options 
            -g = sets the users default group or primary group 
                sudo useradd -g security user2 (adds user2 as a new user and assigns their primary group to be security)

            -G = adds user to additional groups or supplemental/secondary groups
                sudo useradd -G finance,admin user2 (user2 as anew user and adds them to existing finance and admin groups)

    userdel - removes user from system
         -r = delete files in user's home directory
             sudo userdel user2 (deletes user2 as user)
             sudo userdel -r user2 (deletes user2 as a user and deletes all files in home directory)


    sudo groupdel user2

Note: When you create a new user in Linux, a group with the same name as the user is automatically created and the user is the only member of that group. After removing users, it is good practice to clean up any such empty groups that may remain behind.
           

    usermod - modifies existing user accounts 
        -g and -G work 

        sudo usermod -g executive user2 (change user2's primary group to 'executive' group)

        sudo usermod -a -G marketing user2 (add existing user2 to supplemental 'marketing' group)

            -a will append the user to an existing group 
                without this, -G will replace any existing supplemental groups 

            -d: Changes the user’s home directory.
            -l: Changes the user’s login name.
            -L: Locks the account so the user can’t log in.

    chown - changes ownership of a file or directory 

        sudo chown user2 access.txt (change user owner of access.txt to user2)
            changes user owner 

        sudo chown :security access.txt (change group owner of access.txt to user2)
            changes group owner
                    Must include (:)colon before "security" to destinate it as a group name


Integrated Linux support within the shell

    man - displays info on other commands and how they work 

Note: You can output more information one line at a time by pressing the ENTER key or output the next page of the manual by pressing the space bar.

    whatis - display description of command on a single line 
    apropos - search for a command even if they do not know the specific command name, searches manual page descriptions for specified string
        -a = searches for commands that contain all strings 

Hashing a file 
    sha256sum newfile.txt


Community

https://unix.stackexchange.com/ 
